*Before the dawn of computer systems and networks, in the Art of War, Sun Tzu taught, “If you know the enemy and know yourself, your victory will not stand in doubt.” If you are playing the role of an attacker, you need to gather information about your target systems. If you are playing the role of a defender, you need to know what your adversary will discover about your systems and networks.*

# Recon

Reconnaissance (recon) can be defined as a **preliminary survey to gather information about a target**. It is the first step in The [Unified Kill](https://www.unifiedkillchain.com/) Chain to gain an initial foothold on a system. We divide reconnaissance into:

    Passive Reconnaissance
    Active Reconnaissance

## Passive reconnaissance
- You rely on publicly available knowledge. 
	- It is the knowledge that you can access from publicly available resources without directly engaging with the target. 
	- Think of it like you are looking at target territory from afar without stepping foot on that territory.

Passive reconnaissance activities include many activities, for instance:

    Looking up DNS records of a domain from a public DNS server.
    Checking job ads related to the target website.
    Reading news articles about the target company.

## Active reconnaissance
- This cannot be achieved so discreetly. 
- It requires direct engagement with the target. 
	- Think of it like you check the locks on the doors and windows, among other potential entry points.

Examples of active reconnaissance activities include:

    Connecting to one of the company servers such as HTTP, FTP, and SMTP.
    Calling the company in an attempt to get information (social engineering).
    Entering company premises pretending to be a repairman.

**Considering the invasive nature of active reconnaissance, one can quickly get into legal trouble unless one obtains proper legal authorisation.**

[[3.Whois]]