# Search Engine Optimization
Search Engine Optimisation or SEO is a prevalent and lucrative topic in modern-day search engines. In fact, so much so, that entire businesses capitalise on improving a domains SEO “ranking”. At an abstract view, search engines will “prioritise” those domains that are easier to index. There are many factors in how “optimal” a domain is - resulting in something similar to a point-scoring system

**To highlight a few influences on how these points are scored, factors such as:**  

- How responsive your website is to the different browser types I.e. Google Chrome, Firefox and Internet Explorer - this includes Mobile phones!

- How easy it is to crawl your website (or if crawling is even allowed ...but we'll come to this later) through the use of "Sitemaps"

- What kind of keywords your website has (i.e. In our examples if the user was to search for a query like “Colours” no domain will be returned - as the search engine has not (yet) crawled a domain that has any keywords to do with “Colours”

### Site analyzer
There are various online tools - sometimes provided by the search engine providers themselves that will show you just how optimised your domain is. For example, [Google's Site Analyser](https://web.dev)

###### But...Who or What Regulates these "Crawlers"?

Aside from the search engines who provide these "Crawlers", website/web-server owners themselves ultimately stipulate what content "Crawlers" can scrape. Search engines will want to retrieve **everything** from a website - but there are a few cases where we wouldn't want **all** of the contents of our website to be indexed! Can you think of any...? How about a secret administrator login page? We don't want **everyone** to be able to find that directory - especially through a google search.

Introducing Robots.txt

[[3.Robots txt]]